README.md, before:

# HSM.c

Hierarchical State Machine (HSM) library for complex, stateful, event-driven
applications written in C.

HSM is based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) state machines (also called
state charts).

## Use

Embed the files in `src/` into your project. Then design your state machine. 
Implement in source code, creating states objects, events, and event handlers.

Generally speaking, you will have one instance of `HSM_state_t` for the state
machine, and each state within the machine. For each of those instances, you
will have functions to handle `on_event`, `on_entry` (if required), `on_exit`
(if required), and `on_initialize` (if required). The data pointer for each
state will _usually_ point to the same data structure which contains all the
mutable data manipulated by the state machine.

Similarly, you will create an `HSM_event_t` instance for each event begin 
processed by the state machine. The event `data` pointer will point to the
unique data for each event ID.

## Dependencies

None! HSM.c is straight C11 code.

If you want to build the examples or run the unit tests, you can either use
[Pixi](https://pixi.sh/) or [CMake](https://cmake.org/). Pixi uses CMake
under the hood. You will also need a C compiler. The Pixi project is configured
to use gcc.

## Examples

The `examples/` directory contains example projects that use HSM.c.

### Turnstile

The Turnstile example project simulates a turnstile using a state machine. For
more information, see the Turnstile [README.md](examples/turnstile/README.md) 

To build with Pixi, use ~~`pixi run turnstile`~~ `pixi shell`, then follow the
CMake instructions.

To build with CMake,

```shell
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..
cmake --build . --target turnstile
```

## Test

Unit tests use the [Unity Test Project](https://github.com/ThrowTheSwitch/Unity)
as a framework. It is linked as a submodule to this project, so either clone
this project using the `--recurse-submodules` flag when cloning this project, or
use `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` to pull it into the project.

If you aren't going to run the unit tests against HSM.c, you do not need to pull
in Unity.

To build tests with Pixi, use ~~`pixi run test`~~ `pixi shell`, then follow the CMake instructions.

To build tests with CMake, 

```shell
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..
cmake --build . --target hsm_test
```

## License

Copyright 2024, Andrew Lin. All rights reserved.

This library is licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE.txt or
https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

Commit message:

Enable logging with command line flag

README.md, after:

# HSM.c

Hierarchical State Machine (HSM) library for complex, stateful, event-driven
applications written in C.

HSM is based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) state machines (also called
state charts).

## Use

Embed the files in `src/` into your project. Then design your state machine. 
Implement in source code, creating states objects, events, and event handlers.

Generally speaking, you will have one instance of `HSM_state_t` for the state
machine, and each state within the machine. For each of those instances, you
will have functions to handle `on_event`, `on_entry` (if required), `on_exit`
(if required), and `on_initialize` (if required). The data pointer for each
state will _usually_ point to the same data structure which contains all the
mutable data manipulated by the state machine.

Similarly, you will create an `HSM_event_t` instance for each event begin 
processed by the state machine. The event `data` pointer will point to the
unique data for each event ID.


## Dependencies

None! HSM.c is straight C11 code.

If you want to build the examples or run the unit tests, you can either use
[Pixi](https://pixi.sh/) or [CMake](https://cmake.org/). Pixi uses CMake
under the hood. You will also need a C compiler. The Pixi project is configured
to use gcc.

## Examples

The `examples/` directory contains example projects that use HSM.c.

### Turnstile

The Turnstile example project simulates a turnstile using a state machine. For
more information, see the Turnstile [README.md](examples/turnstile/README.md) 

To build with Pixi, use ~~`pixi run turnstile`~~ `pixi shell`, then follow the
CMake instructions.

To build with CMake,

```shell
mkdir build
cd build
cmake [-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug] [-DLOGGING=true] ..
cmake --build . --target turnstile
```

where the command line flags in brackets are optional.

## Test

Unit tests use the [Unity Test Project](https://github.com/ThrowTheSwitch/Unity)
as a framework. It is linked as a submodule to this project, so either clone
this project using the `--recurse-submodules` flag when cloning this project, or
use `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` to pull it into the project.

If you aren't going to run the unit tests against HSM.c, you do not need to pull
in Unity.

To build tests with Pixi, use ~~`pixi run test`~~ `pixi shell`, then follow the CMake instructions.

To build tests with CMake, 

```shell
mkdir build
cd build
cmake [-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug] [-DLOGGING=true] ..
cmake --build . --target hsm_test
```

where the command line flags in brackets are optional.

## License

Copyright 2024, Andrew Lin. All rights reserved.

This library is licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE.txt or
https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
